INSTRUCTIONS
The Thing From The Future is an imagination game for 1-6 players. The object of the game
is to use the cards to generate the most interesting, funny or thought-provoking ideas for
artifacts from the future. There are over 3.7 million possible prompts in the deck. For group
play: 
<1> Form a group of 2-6 players. Shuffle deck well and deal out one dozen cards each.

<2> Starting with the dealer, compose a creative prompt by taking turns placing cards
of different “suits” on the table (suits are indicated by the letter at the top of each
card). Take turns placing cards until the suit letters on the tops of the cards spell the
word, ATOM. A complete prompt has one and only one of each letter. If you can’t
contribute, draw a card. 

<3> Give a FutureThing Playsheet to each player and record
the four elements of the prompt. Silently produce your own brief description (and
sketch if you wish) of your thing from the future. This gets easier as your imagina-
tion warms up! 

<4> When everyone is ready, share future thing ideas with the group.

<5> The creator of the group’s favorite idea wins the cards in play. Whoever has earned the
most cards when play ends wins overall. <6> Share your favorite ideas with the gameplay
community using the hashtag #FutureThing.


KEY CARD

ARC outlines the type of future world that the “thing” comes from,
and how far away it is from today. There are four types of Arc, each an
umbrella for countless possible scenarios:
Growth - a future in which “progress” has continued
Collapse – a future in which society as we know it has come apart
Discipline - a future in which order is deliberately coordinated or
imposed
Transformation – a future in which a profound historical evolu-
tion has occurred

TERRAIN is the thematic context or location where this object could
be found in that future.

OBJECT is the focus for your imagination: a specific cultural artifact
that reveals something about how this future is different from today.

MOOD suggests how it might feel to experience this thing from the
future.

